and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show i'm your host sam dunning
and co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com and
today
i am joined by ethan butte ethan is the
chief
evangelist over at bonbon he's host of
the customer
experience podcast and he's also the
co-author of rehumanize
your business he's sent over 10 000
personal video messages
and taught thousands of businesses uh
business professionals rather
how and why they can do exactly the same
ethan i really want welcome to the show
how's it going
awesome thanks so much for having me no
worries man so we're
we're going to be talking all about
video um but not just video we're going
to be talking why
traditional follow-up namely email is is
pretty much dead in the water and why
video is the one that's gonna gonna take
over
um but first and foremost ethan i mean
i've i've spoken to a lot of business
professional sales professional
marketers over the last few years and um
a few of them have
said to me look video is okay for some
not so much for others
it's a bit of a gimmick it's not really
here to stay it's maybe a fad across
i don't know 2020 2021 2022 then it's
down the pad what are your thoughts sir
uh my take on that and again thank you
for having me my take on that is that if
it is a gimmick
if you treat it like a gimmick if you
perceive it as a gimmick if you
use it in a gimmicky way it's exactly
what it'll be
it'll burn out on you it won't be
especially useful if you try to do
things like
take the garbage emails that you're
sending right now they're producing a
you know some tiny fraction of a reply
rate uh and try to turn those into
videos that's also not going to i mean
it's treating it a little bit in a lazy
fashion
a little bit like a gimmick my feeling
is that we all know that we're better in
person
we all know that we're most effective
we're most clear
we're most persuasive when we're eye to
eye face to face
obviously we can't do that for a variety
of reasons sometimes it's geographic
like you and me
sometimes it's time zones which is kind
of like you and me you're kind of
rational
today i'm just getting started you know
for all these reasons that we can't get
together with the people who matter most
to our success
we need to find ways to be more clear to
be more personal to be more ourselves
because that's how we win and i think
video messages and email linkedin slack
wherever else you want to put them
belong in the mix for the long term
do you think that video is is the better
option
or like you mentioned there they're part
of the mix um
and the reason i say that is a lot of
again a lot of business owners or guests
we've had on the show might have a
preference that they might say
look you've got to use the phone some
say you've got to use a multi-channel
approach some say email's king
it's video way up there we're saying
that video is overtaken calling are we
saying no we just put it part of a
blended approach
i think it's a blended approach i mean
really ultimately where we need to go
when we have the opportunity when we do
engage with people we learn a little bit
about them
we obviously learn that across any
population of people we're communicating
with let's just say it's 25
active people that we're kind of
communicating with over some period of
time in a prospecting capacity or in a
customer capacity
we know that five of them prefer this
channel seven of them prefer that
channel
nine of them prefer that channel i don't
remember how many i have left here in my
made up scenario but
different people need and want different
things i would also say in terms of
making contact just going specifically
to that prospecting use case
it does take a mix i think anyone who's
actively doing pros uh prospecting will
tell you
if the only thing i did was make phone
calls i wouldn't be as successful
if the only thing i did was reach out on
linkedin i wouldn't be as successful if
the only thing i did was send emails
i wouldn't be successful it takes a
little bit of a mix and the cool thing
about video is when you blend it in
with a voicemail with a linkedin
connection with an email you can refer
to those other touches and just say hey
i'm the person who's doing that i just
want to put a face with the name i want
to let you know i'm sincere and my
interest in being of some service or
value to you right and so
in that mix it allows you to ace at
least for the foreseeable future
separate yourself from other people who
may be reaching out and then
at the same time essentially humanize
those other touches by now being a face
and a name and a personality which by
the way is much harder to reject
than a screen full of plain black text
on a plain white screen
yeah yeah yeah it makes sense um and
we'll get into that in a bit we'll talk
about where we can actually utilize
video
in different parts of our process
whether a sales work whether a business
owner
and which which angles which approaches
that would perhaps be a best
fit um so we've talked about there that
it can be part of the mix it doesn't
have to necessarily take over certain
elements but it can be weaved in as and
when we want
um what what perhaps should be what
perhaps should be the mindset is video
for anyone and everyone ethan
um or is it for generally people that
are used to being front of camera or is
it
something we can pick up straight away
um
what do we need to think about before we
get started it's like
anything that you want to get basically
good at you're not very good in the
beginning
you practice you get better you get
better you get better and then you're
good you're comfortable you're over the
hump etc and so
whether it's something like playing
chess or learning to speak
mandarin or learning to ride a bike or
skiing down a mountainside
all of these things you're not very good
in the beginning but as you get going
and as you focus on it you get better
and better
i think it's the same thing with any
sales professional your first
five phone calls probably weren't
fantastic your first five
in-person presentations either across uh
you know a conference room table or
across a table at a coffee shop
probably weren't nearly as comfortable
as the five most recent ones that you
did and so
i think the sad thing that happens is
that people you know they they watch a
video like this or they listen to a
podcast episode or they download
something or they read a blog post and
they're like i'm gonna give this a try
they're uncomfortable out of the gate
and then they say oh this isn't for me
i'm not a video person but just think of
the consequences of that like
if on your first you know phone call
you're like ah that was uncomfortable i
guess i'm just never going to use the
phone again
or you know that email wasn't especially
well written or it took me a little
longer to write than i wanted to
i guess i'm just not an email person or
you know
i misspoke during my last in-person
sales presentation or the last meeting
that i was in
i guess i'm just not a meeting person
i'm just going to stop going to meetings
all together it's like
that's where i see video by the way it's
where i see video messages i look
forward to the day when we can stop
talking about this as a new thing
and we start going down the more nuanced
and refined
paths you know like you can still take a
sales course on
how to be more effective over the
telephone or how to give a better sales
presentation
and rightfully so we're constantly
learning evolving improving etc
and i look forward to the day when when
this style of video
communication is just part of that mix
and we're
we're past the conversation we're having
today that said
we need to have this conversation today
or else it's never going to be
normalized
yeah some some great points and on that
note we've um
i've i've said it many times on the show
the amount of times i get video messages
that are actually personalized every now
and then i'll get a video message
but quite often it's not actually
personalized so they'll just it'll just
start hi or hello without my name or my
company or any
personal reference to me and then just
go on with the pitch or the spiel or
whatever it is about that company so
occasionally i'll get those
but i can't remember the last time i
actually got a personal um video apart
from yourself ethan when we were talking
about getting you on the show
um that was specific to me so that just
shows if you want to pitch me just give
me a video
because i never get them anyway um but
with that said if
if it is something that people tuning in
are thinking yeah i've heard a lot about
video i'm quite tempted i want a
different way to break into people's
inbox
to mix up the monotonous emails
everyone's getting hundreds of a day
or the cold calls or whatever it is
something different that's going to make
them stand out is it just a case of what
you mentioned there
we just need to do one it might be
uncomfortable then we plow through
or are there a few other things and i
don't want to make this all about
mindset
are there a few other things we need to
consider um
that are going to help us just start to
feel comfortable with producing videos
daily
um or is it just a case that we grin and
bear and crack on
yeah this one's challenging because most
of the resistance and most of the
challenge of doing it
is emotional and it's internal um but
most of what i'm going to share with you
is rational so
i know it's not totally going to hit but
i'll leave you with a tip that i think
will
you know bridge that divide a little bit
and so in general the main reason
people uh you know i think you said grin
and barrett like this idea of list like
i'm just gonna force my way through this
very terrible uncomfortable awkward
thing
like that that is part of it but the
reason we feel so awkward and
uncomfortable is we're just not used to
seeing ourselves like we've become
comfortable seeing ourselves on video
now that we all have to use zoom or
microsoft teams or cisco webex or google
meet or whatever we're using for our
you know face-to-face meeting so we're
used to seeing ourselves on our screen a
little bit
but the difference with these recorded
video messages that we can play them
back
and when we do we tend to judge
ourselves far more harshly than anyone
else would
we tend to be unfair to ourselves we
tend to expect
a higher level of perfection of
ourselves than we ever would of anyone
else
and so here's my tip for people because
we do need to get through that and
practice
is the only way through here's the
easiest way to get comfortable before
perhaps you start reaching out to
prospects or customers
or maybe people that you're looking to
um to engage with you maybe you want
them to hire you
kind of thing like video is useful for
so many different things
because it's about getting to know you
it's about you communicating your
sincere interest it's about you
providing some
legitimate value i hate using that word
because it's just
a little bit vague but sure video allows
you to do a lot of these things that
maybe we'll get into
the best way to get comfortable if
you're not comfortable just
grinning and bearing it through like
things that are actively part of the
work that you're doing in your bottom
line success
i recommend starting with people you
know and who know you i recommend
starting with family members
friends people you know on linkedin
former co-workers
and the messages that you're going to be
sending are something like
thank you or good job or congratulations
or i was thinking about you or i just
noticed that or i just heard that
um and and by those last couple ones i
mean like if you're scrolling your
linkedin feed
or you're scrolling instagram or twitter
or facebook or wherever you're spending
your time
um you see things right and you may like
you may comment
but there's also something like whether
it's like that there's some nuance that
you'd find
difficult to capture in a comment or
that's just kind of like not
not getting clear or you you know a half
hour later or a day later you're still
thinking about this provocative like
it's happened to me a number of times
a provocative or interesting
conversation that someone created on
linkedin
and so even though you've liked even
though you've commented and maybe even
commented back
send a video back hey sam it's ethan
gosh you know that post you put up
yesterday hey
good job by the way tons of engagement
on that i was glad to be part of it but
you know here i am a day and a half
later and i'm still thinking about this
thing and
you know blah blah blah blah blah blah
and it just it a
it takes our digital connections and
really brings them to life a little bit
more
it allows people to feel seen and
appreciated it creates deeper
conversations etc and then the easier
use cases by the way again
thank you hey thank you so much i think
if any of us was honest with ourselves
at the end of any work day
we could easily make a list of two or
three people that we should absolutely
express some appreciation toward we tend
not to do that as often as we could
should would
people love it it feels amazing same
thing with congratulations or good job
you see someone got a promotion
or you see someone finally close that
deal they were working on for the past
two or three weeks or two or three
months
for that matter so these little touches
a they get you comfortable on camera
like just seeing yourself and recording
it how do i start these videos
how do i get out of these videos it gets
you comfortable with your software
because you're comfortable with your
setting which
most of us should do again because we're
doing video calls gets you comfortable
with looking the camera in the lens
all of these things that we need from a
technical as well as kind of a
functional
comfort level can be worked out by
reaching out in these lower threat
friendly easy to do videos and by the
way again you're going to start getting
replies
that completely validate that this is a
different and better way to communicate
you're gonna get replies back that say
oh my gosh i loved your email which by
the way no one ever says unless there's
a warm personal video in it
or um it was so great to see you or
you know in the case that you're
reaching out hey you know i saw the news
about your grandmother i just want to
let you know i was really sorry to see
that she's such an awesome woman
um i hope everything works out okay if i
can ever do anything for you or your
family reach out and let me know
right you're gonna reply to a message
like that that's like
oh my gosh that made my day or oh my
gosh that made my week or thank you so
much for thinking of me and the only key
in all of these by the way
is you actually have to be sincere and
mean it yeah this this is making me
think that i don't thank my own team
enough
and internal communication and like
i mean obviously functional stuff like
project updates or
preventing everyone from having to get
in a meeting like you just give a five
minute update in a video and it covers
you know everything but but to your
point here this thank you good job
congrat a little 18 second video can
absolutely turn around someone's day in
this idea of feeling seen and
appreciated
no matter what seat you're in whether
it's a prospect seat a customer seat
family friend
team member co-worker peer subordinate
supervisor
whoever that other person is to you they
want to know
that you appreciate them you all want
that i mean like even the most
most hardcore type a people who are
watching this
are absolutely desperate for that
positive feedback
definitely now that makes sense so it's
almost like dipping your toe in the
water so starting with
familiar people whether that's
colleagues team members friends
people you're connected to on linkedin
or social media and just just reaching
out
with a warm sincere message and i guess
gradually build that up once you get
comfortable with that then perhaps you
do it to a prospect or an existing
customer
and then you maybe do it to a colder
contact and then just work your way
up and up and up as you go cool um all
right so i want to get actionable with
this ethan i want to talk about
um because i've got perhaps some unusual
ways i've used video but i'd love to
know yours
um because you are the video evangelist
um so
well let's let's talk about some
processes or some areas
perhaps in the sales process or business
process that you've found to be really
effective
where video has been really helpful and
then maybe you can have a chat around
kind of the best ways to integrate this
sure um so i guess we can think about
like the customer life cycle we'll focus
on the acquisition side
um although there are countless use
cases at and after the point of
commitment where someone swipes a credit
card or signs a contract or whatever
we need to onboard them successfully
make sure that they get
that they get what they want out of it
that you're giving them updates and
staying in touch for retention expansion
and other purposes
for long-term customer success and
increased lifetime value
which allows you to make more
commitments on the acquisition side if
you can increase that lifetime value
so just starting from the get-go you're
you're either doing some
inbounding or most people are probably
doing a combination of inbound and
outbound and of course you can use video
for some of that earliest engagement so
let's just say you have a bunch of
inbound stuff that you're doing you know
whether it's um
you know you're generating leads through
forms or downloads or
uh webinars or any of these other things
anytime you have people that are now
part of your community they've raised
their hand they've expressed some level
of interest or commitment
uh a great thing you know whatever
you're sending like you're delivering
whatever you promised
or you're making that welcome or
introduction in the case that they're
signing up for a trial or something like
that
reaching out with an evergreen video and
this is a key
key option here an evergreen video and
you mentioned that you've received
several of these and evergreen video is
recorded once and using
used over and over and over again or
it's recorded once and sent to a whole
bunch of people all at one time
and you can do some things in those
videos that make them feel personal
uh but the key thing is and this is
fundamental because there are now
services that are trying to fake putting
in your first name and things like that
whether it's whether it's a chat bot
whether it's a video message no matter
what it is i am deeply of the mind
and the heart that you don't make
something appear as something that it is
not and so
with these evergreen videos you're not
trying to act like it's just for that
person but the more segmented you can be
the more specific you can be the better
so if you can refer to the lead source
hey it's ethan with bombbomb wanted to
say thank you so much
for checking out our brand new video
adoption guide hey if you have any
questions about that content or you want
to start a free trial
if you have any questions at all just
reply to this email and let me know i'll
come straight to my inbox i'd be happy
to answer your question
take care and have a great day so i
didn't i didn't greet you by name but it
was specific to
this particular you know lead and lead
generation things the more specific you
make that the better the alternative is
truly personal i think for you
with an agency model because you're not
looking to sign up
80 000 customers you're looking for you
know dozens or hundreds of the right
customers and so
you may you know on this val value
volume basis
you may want to do those as truly
personal touches
hey sam it's ethan i just noticed that
blah blah blah blah blah right
and so sure actively outbounding
again mixed in with your emails your
phone calls your linkedin messages
whatever else you're doing
or responding to inbound opportunities
is one
typically what we're trying to do is
move people in into some kind of
a uh a meeting type situation uh some
kind of a
discovery call type of scenario and so
once you have that set
um confirming appointment sets with
video we have seen it
in our own business and across a number
of other businesses dramatically
increase
show rates on those appointments um and
what you're doing in that video again
that can be done evergreen where
every time an appointment is set you use
the same video or it can be done in a
truly personal manner where you're
speaking specifically to that person
specific to that opportunity etc
but the whole goal of that video is to
build up and promise specific value in
there to create some anticipation
to make sure that you have the
information you need in advance so that
they're prepared for the meeting
perhaps maybe if it's super helpful to
make sure they bring another particular
person
or role along for that meeting these
kinds of things like create some
anticipation and promise some specific
value so it seems like
something that they want to be a part of
and then this is a really
money use case and then i'll give you
two more maybe and then we can move on
yeah yeah sure
um this is the money one like if if you
only
like once you're basically comfortable
on camera if the only way you used video
besides saying thank you to people was
this
it would be worth whatever your
subscription is no matter what service
you're using
bomb or another one after the
appointment and i know a lot of good
aes and other sales folks will do this
they'll like they'll keep notes during
it
during a call and then they'll give like
a bullet point follow-up to the person
add a video to that to that email and
what you're doing there
is kind of meeting them where they are
emotionally some people are coming to
you out of fear or desperation
other people are coming to you because
they're in a great situation but they
want to make it even better you know
they're coming to you in different ways
so meet them where they are emotionally
use their own language back with them
about why you're engaged in the
conversation
readdress any objections that came up
push any of those excitement buttons
again the things that they're really
like jazzed about make sure that you hit
on those things again
and draw like a quick future of like
what it's like a year from now if we
decide to go forward together kind of a
thing like cast that vision with them
again to sustain any kind of momentum or
excitement that you generated in that
meeting
and the cool thing and then again
include bullet points down below out of
courtesy you don't expect everyone to
watch
the video exclusively provide some
support material with it
lightweight but then what you're doing
then is giving them something that they
can
easily forward to other people who may
either be involved in the decision
directly or may influence the decision
but you don't have to use that one
person or two people
as your proxy you get to present the
opportunity yourself
as who you are the excited informed
expert person who is going to help them
with this problem or help them with this
opportunity and so
this ability and i've seen that type of
video get forwarded so what happens is
like hey ethan i just noticed that this
video i sent
uh got opened um you know 18 times and
the video got played 12 times like
it's kind of creeping me out what's
going on it's like well tell me about
the nature of the video well it was
after that you know they described the
scenario i just gave you i'm like well
what what happened is they probably
forwarded to two or three people
and a couple of them probably forwarded
it to a couple more a because it's novel
and b because it's probably highly
informative and in their presenting
you get to present the opportunity um
contracts
proposals um these types of things like
detail
complexity um typically you know rather
than just giving someone this you know
eight-page document that's filled with a
bunch of jargon and is maybe unclear
walk and talk them through it with a
screen recording video
break it down for them if you negotiated
to together anything in there
point out that you included something
that they wanted if there's something
that you constantly get friction on
where people are like
hey i don't know about paragraph g uh
you know speak to it specifically hey
you know a lot of people are kind of
confused about this one i just want to
make clear what that language is about
like walk and talk through these um and
you can also do it of course with
proposals and other
uh sorry with sales presentations and
other things too but contracts proposals
these types of things it's really
helpful and again those tend to get
forwarded as well to other people so
that
yeah you know you're going to do a
better job explaining it probably the
per
than the person who's looking at it for
the first or second time
obviously at the point of commitment any
peer-to-peer stuff that you can do
that's relevant to the deal if it's a if
it's a technical
uh decision or a technical product or
service
um or or you know service delivery
your cto to their cto or your ceo to
their ct ceo
your cmo to their cmo like peer-to-peer
stuff just kind of build that
relationship and provide some assurance
you know confirm any kind of like values
matching that there is there just like
any of the stuff that um will really
bridge that gap and make it a no-brainer
like okay we gotta go with these people
you know feel like we know them they
seem like really interested and
motivated again
the simple act of recording a truly
personal video even if it's 45 seconds
and sending it
is just the sign of respect the sign of
appreciation that people really really
value
yeah no that does make sense so some
great points and really like the tip
in terms of if you had a phone
conversation the the traditional thing
to do is can you send me an email or can
you send me a quote can you send me an
estimate can you send me a proposal
document
whatever that request from the
prospective customer may be
and then as a business owner as a sales
rep we might just think
do our standard robot mode send a bunch
of bullet points
hope for the best give them a call a
week later oh we're still comparing it
we're still thinking about it whatever
the
the usual classic response we're used to
getting is
um but no like you said video is do you
think it works so well ethan because
it's so rarely used and it just stands
out or is there
like an emotional part to it is there a
psychological part to it
um is it just because this person's
taking the time to put something
a bit more tailored or that is it a
combination of all these things that
because it works so well
yeah i think it's where you ended up
there i think it is a combination of all
these things we're still in this window
of this is new this is different
and so there will be a point at which
some of that novelty layer wears off
which i think is not a bad thing at all
here's the deal
ultimately you are your own best
differentiator ultimately when people
say yes
they're saying yes in part to you to who
you are to the trust and rapport and
relationship that you built
to the expertise that you demonstrated
etc the human still matters and if the
human doesn't matter
in this sales process and in the service
delivery process
if the human doesn't truly matter the
human's going to get cut out
right and so if you feel like you are
necessary and you are useful
in this process of building trust
doing diagnosis doing prescription uh
you know it's
starting to do some of the solution
providing etc
if you feel as a human being that you
are useful and that you belong there and
that you are worth whatever you're being
paid to do that work
you need to find more ways to lean in to
what makes you uniquely human
otherwise where we don't do this the
system at large and i'm speaking in a
very broad generic sense will find a way
to pull because a human adds cost and so
if we don't lean into some of these
things some of the
emotional components to some of the
nuanced adaptable flexible components if
we don't make people
feel this is critical now from a
customer experience standpoint
and to where you were earlier with the
thank you videos and employee experience
standpoint
if people don't feel seen and heard and
appreciated
then then they're going to default to
where they do feel that way right so we
need to
let people know that they matter we want
to let people know that we are there for
them we want people to feel
to kind of some of the way you ask that
question we want them to feel that
psychological proximity now they're not
going to feel it in a conscious way
but they're going to feel
psychologically proximate to you
even in the absence of physical
proximity that's to say
if you and i never meet in person sam i
still feel closer to you for having
spent this time with you
on screen in conversation etc and if we
sustain our relationship by swapping
video messages a couple few times a year
with updates or
you know i just saw this you know
congratulations kind of stuff
we're gonna feel psychologically near to
one another we're gonna feel more
connected
a humans love to feel this way we are a
highly highly social species i think
it's one of the reasons that we've
evolved and adapted and kind of have
become dominant
on on the earth for better or for worse
it's a whole separate conversation
but our highly social nature like we
want this we need this we're good at it
etc and so
by the way that's something that
machines are not super good at
this adaptability flexibility the true
emotional components
of how we build trust relationship how
we move opportunities forward etc so
i think that there are a lot of uh deep
human parts to this i think it is a a
somewhat hollow substitute for in-person
experience but for so many different
reasons the pandemic was one of them
our opportunities to do that are limited
we're all operating generally on a more
uh a wider geographic basis so we're not
just
you know you can't afford to really i
think a lot of companies are looking at
this right now
can we afford to put her on a plane
for six hours in order to go across the
continent
in order to go visit this one person to
have this 90-minute meeting
and then stay overnight and fly back the
next day
now we're in for like you know a
thousand dollars in expenses minimum
depends on how nice the dinner and
drinks were
you know all that stuff is up for
evaluation at this point and so i think
a lot
that's going to happen less i don't know
that it's going to stop happening it's
going to happen
less often and so how do we close that
gap
how do we the reason we all know why we
do this we're most persuasive in person
we build trust and relationship better
in person all this stuff so
how do we close that gap if we're not
going to be doing this as often
or heaven forbid we're restricted again
from doing it for any of a variety of
reasons and so
um i think there's something deeply
human here i think there's something
highly functional here
i think there is a novelty that is still
going to last i think for at least the
next 18 to 24 months because so many
people are
dragging their feet into this in my
opinion obvious opportunity to improve
the way that we're working every day
yep yep some some good points you raised
something interesting just now ethan
so you're talking about the fact um
perhaps
ai perhaps things take over i mean
personally i think that if you're
offering
let's say a transactional product and
you're only sticking to
i don't know calling emailing you're not
doing anything to differentiate yourself
like you leaned on just now
um to kind of showcase who you are
what's unique about yourself your
offering how you're tailoring
to your prospects needs desires goals
fixing their problems
you're probably just going to be
replaced by ai in a few years in my
opinion
um because they're going to be able to
craft emails to understand what people
need
um they're probably going to be able to
do videos at some stage where they can
just swap the names out swap the pain
points out and fix all this stuff
so if you're not doing something that's
a bit unique that's a bit different um
and you're selling something that's a
relatively low monetary value
um i think you probably will get
replaced um
but then when we're going to kind of
larger scale more complex sales cycles
more enterprise level deals
i think these things are going to be
really critical i would add that
you could be selling something that
isn't a transactional sale it actually
is one of these more complex sales
if you're doing it in a transactional
way you're not necessarily
going to lose out to ai but you are
going to lose out to competition
yeah yeah good point good at good ad so
um yeah some some interesting stuff so
we talked about kind of working
video into the sales process whether
that's with a new lead a new contact
that's just come in whether that's
to complement your recent phone
conversation or to send alongside your
proposal
um one interesting way i use video a
little while back actually was
we had a prospect that got in touch i
think we spoke on the phone we perhaps
sent an estimate
he said yeah we'll speak next next week
never managed to get hold of him
um probably went by a couple months and
then i thought
i was going through my sales pipeline i
thought we'll just send him a video
um and i think i just said on that video
like hey steve
i can't remember his name hey steve been
a while we were speaking about your web
project
appreciate things getting in the way
life happens wondered if you still
wanted to pick up on fixing xyz
or if you've given up on this project he
replies later 30 minutes
sam sorry had some really bad news let's
pick up tomorrow i do want to move
forward
um so that was one of the best case
studies i had because that resulted in a
few grand deal i love it
but we have a pretty large sales team in
a pilot program right now
and uh like testing this out and
typically what we do you know we do we
we prescribe use cases based on what
they really need or want what we learn
from them as
as we build a relationship and that's
one of the primary use cases like we
call it like
you know and re-engaging uh
non-responsive leads or
opportunities that have gone cold or
whatever and so a chunk of their team is
just reaching out to people who had
expressed some level of interest
at some point doing exactly what you did
which is hey
person it's person detail about where we
last left off based on the notes in my
crm
uh wondering and you what you did there
was just perfect
easy to respond to you're asking a yes
or no question
hey is this something that we should
pick up or or have you moved on from the
opportunity
and what invariably happens because
you've made it really easy to respond
yes or no
they're going to reply and they're not
going to say just no
or yes yeah go yes and or
yes but um or these kinds of things and
it all you're doing is just
re-engaging that person and starting the
conversation back up and there's it's
it's killer it's good you're getting
great results just like you did
it's a great point i think something
that this is probably not limited to
video as well this is probably listen
limited this probably goes across email
cool everything i think a lot of us
by habit put too much fluff into things
so like you said just
just give the question like have you
given up on this are you still
interested in this because they're gonna
probably reply to that email yes or no
whereas if you start doing things like
would you like to reconsider this would
it make sense to pick up next week at
two o'clock in the afternoon and how's
your dog and what's going on with this
and five minutes late you've got a
really complex email
or video and they've just switched off
um so i don't know what you think about
that ethan but i quote
simpler is always better just here's a
basic
a basic truism out of respect for other
people the simpler we can make our
messages the better now
it's harder for us to make a simpler
message
to make a shorter message to make a more
concise message
it takes more work on our part but the
more work we're willing to take on on
our side
to make it easier for other people a the
more they appreciate it b
the better our results are going to be
cool um
all right so sales sales process we've
covered a little bit um
i'd like to to share just before we wrap
up a few ideas that we can use video
post sell because you hinted at it
earlier
so whether that's with perhaps existing
customers whether that's people that
have just signed a contract
perhaps it's customers that have been
with us a long time and want to see if
we can perhaps
add value to their accounts perhaps
upsell them any any
any unusual tips or ideas there anything
uh no i'll just speak to some some broad
ideas maybe drop in a couple of use
cases see where i take it but i just
want to reiterate
especially in an onboarding scenario
right you're on boarding someone into
the product or service for you at an
agency sam it might be something like
hey these are the three main people
you're going to work with introduce hey
my name's so and so i specialize in this
that and the other thing if you ever
have questions like this or this or
anything related reach out to me
um i'm so and so and i do blah blah blah
like so
i mean that's in an agency model it's
about who and what they do
and who to reach out to and when kind of
stuff maybe um
for a technical product uh or a piece of
software or whatever it's
you know here's what you need to know
here's how the thing's laid out
um and maybe i'm your primary point of
contact reach out to me again
those if you're doing them at high
volume
then you're going to want to do those as
evergreen videos and maybe sequence them
and send them out automatically hey now
that you're a customer
you're going to be getting a series of
emails over the next three weeks they
should answer
all the common questions that people
like you tend to have at this point
if you ever need anything specific just
reply to that email or pick up the phone
and give us a call or go to our support
site or however you're supporting people
i will say though uh one of the agencies
that i work with
um they when i signed up with them
they they each this is a little bit
different step than just using a tool
like bom bom to like
live record a video and send it um you
can also upload videos into bomb and
send them to which is what they ended up
doing is
they got all of their team members to
record these short like welcome things
that were about ethan and bom bom and
how excited they were to work with us
etc and
someone edited all the clips together so
it was like this this truly bespoke
unique
welcome message now it wasn't the true
onboarding the rest of the onboarding
was
was primarily like um here's how you do
this
tomorrow we're going to tell you how to
do that etcetera kind of a thing so
anyway i'm boarding
um obviously uh we're doing some form
typically of like a
quarterly business review a qbr or
something like that
those meetings in my opinion could be
made actually
super engaging and constructive and
forward-looking and collaborative
if we do a good job of keeping people
updated
in between those periods right and so by
that i mean if you're an account manager
and you've got 12 accounts you're
overseeing or something like that
pay attention to what's going on in
those accounts you're probably doing
something like that already
but don't just know it and and prepare
and sit on it for
six weeks until that qbr comes up or so
whatever your version of an account
update is
give video updates along the way they
could be short they could be five
minutes long they could be two minutes
long they could be eight minutes long
depends how often you send them and the
nature of the account and what they need
to know sure
that way when you get to the live time
together and this is for any meeting by
the way internal or external
then all of the kind of like that 15 to
30 minutes of updates of just
dumping information on somebody it's
already been done so when you get
together you just re-establish the most
important stuff and you can spend the
rest of the time
being creative being in conversation
brainstorming getting shared commitments
walking out ideas and this kind of like
the true useful uh um
approach to spending that lifetime
together you can do some of the easier
lighter weight like one-way information
sharing through video messages along the
way
um on a one-to-one or a one-to-everyone
basis just staying in touch with your
past clients or
current customers whatever that looks
like for you like a lot of the people
that use our service
you know are kind of like you know for
example like a mortgage loan officer
you know they tend to work with a client
once every handful of years right
but you still want to stay in touch with
them to generate repeat
uh business in the future to generate
referral business
etc so find ways like timely relevant
ways that aren't like
boring or generic that make you the
expert that allow you to provide value
to
your past clients or your current
customers in a way and i hate this
phrase too but i'm going to use it
anyway just to kind of stay top of mind
to be available so that when that
conversation comes up
you know in slack between co-workers
like hey does anyone know someone who
does x y or z like yes you need to talk
to my friend jeff
jeff is the guy right or it's no i don't
really have anybody
and the difference between those two is
do i feel like jeff is my guy do i feel
like jeff has my back do i feel like
jeff stays in front of me do i feel like
jeff adds value to my life
when i think about this category or this
problem
or this opportunity do i have a brand
name or a person's name
in mind video can make that difference
but the key is
this is just basic good you know
marketing sales and customer service
customer success it's just
you know how can we consistently um
stay in front of people in a useful way
that doesn't feel like some kind of a
shallow token effort
um and when we do want to go out and
seasonally ask for referrals
it doesn't feel like we're just ask ask
asking all the time it's just
it's a natural thing like well of course
i mean they give me personal
updates every six weeks why wouldn't i
think of someone else that might enjoy
this extremely
awesome level of service and so that's
just a quick run through that there are
a lot of things to do you can do it
again evergreen or personal
you can do it one to one or you can do
it one to everyone or one to segment is
another great way to do that like
if you look at your customer base you
probably can cut it
you know at least three different ways
if not 13 different ways and so finding
ways to be more specific is even better
i think that's really good especially
the um
i don't want to call it donkey work but
things like if you do have a classic
onboarding process where
you're perhaps sending i don't know
manuals or guides or you're having zoom
calls for
hours just to explain people how they
can use your software or how they can
get
to grips with your product if you've got
videos that are made
engaging and you can just shoot straight
across whether that's just part of the
sequence or via email
and that just saves you and the client
tons of time and then like you say when
you do have those conversations together
they're actually meaningful
and you can talk about how they're doing
where they want to go any problems
they're having what their goals are for
the next month or so or
just make best use of your time rather
than going over things that you can do
in your spare time and just like you
said it's evergreen content so that's
really really useful
and then just keeping in touch with with
current clients using it for referrals
all makes perfect sense um and with that
ethan
i think i think we're good for time so i
want to thank you very much for coming
on sir
really appreciate it i love talking
about this stuff i appreciate that
you're out there
you know pioneering this with the rest
of us my guess is that fewer than half a
million people on earth are doing this
on any consistent basis
it could even be lower than that and i
feel like millions should
definitely definitely agree like i say i
i don't get videos
i i can't recall apart from yourself the
last time i got a video message so
it just shows that there's definitely a
gap at the moment
so ethan please do tell us more about
how we can connect with you with you how
we can learn from you
a bit more at business and the best way
to get in touch sure
my name is ethan butte last name is
b-e-u-t-e you can hit me up on pretty
much any social network by first name
and last name
and uh the software company is called
bom bom it's just the word bomb
twice b-o-m-b b-omb dot com and we're
bomb-bomb on all the social networks
and um the book that i wrote with my
friend steve who's our cmo
is at bombbomb.com book the customer
experience podcast is at bom bom.com
podcast so reach out however you want
engage however you want happy to answer
any questions about any of this stuff
i spend a lot of time doing this as you
said in the introduction sam i'm also a
practitioner
but i'm engaging with our customers and
other people in the community at large
all the time so i'm constantly
collecting and sharing
uh new insights and ideas and use cases
etc so as you start going down this road
you run into any problems questions etc
reach out hit me up happy to help topman
and we'll put all of those links
over in the show episode notes at
businessgrowth.marketing and with that i
want to thank you once again ethan
really enjoyed the conversation sir
yeah me too thanks so much cheers dude
and if you enjoyed the show be sure to
hit subscribe the business growth show
wherever the heck you get your podcast
from we interview business leaders each
and every week to provide actionable
tips
across marketing across sales all the
view to grow yourselves and grow your
business
and with that we'll catch you on the
next episode